
Goal blocks you can push around?
Solving a goal block makes it disappear?
Player can combine with other blocks


Boulder visibility puzzle where blocks combine behind the boulder and it isn't visible because the boulder is between it, but the player realizes they combined two blocks just by the audio cue


Block that disappears when you walk into it
- Could have puzzles where it acts as a prop block, but then when you finish you can walk through it to clear the path to the exit

Secret puzzle where the big block from the previous room is brought in and used as a prop block (like the 1 blocks)

Open world area full of secrets




Possible stories

Journey to escape the grid
Journey to become the greatest block pusher of all time
Journey to find a land with no puzzles


An NPC who is convinced that there is a world that is not on a grid, and that a scientist somehow took him from that world and put him into the grid world.





You can undo text options and dialogue


Character who's stuck in corner but doesn't realize that the block behind him is actually a boulder that can be pushed.



Who can push blocks? Who can move on their own? Can anyone destroy or create blocks?

What if the laws of blocks moving are not understood, and at any moment you could lose the ability to move?

The player has been alive so long and still has not lost their ability to move



Puzzle where the player has to solve several puzzles and then open a one way exit for others (e.g. there's a road closure and someone needs to go around and fix it)

Puzzle where the prop block is another tile, and not a 1 block.



Part where someone tries to trap the player, for example by telling them to exit through a doorway, but upon entering the room they are immediately trapped. The player learns this and rewinds, and then needs to keep making excuses for why they don't want to go through the doorway




What is there in tiletown? What is there to do? Do people work? What do people do for fun?



Laboratory
Library
Mines
Pushville - Residential suburb
Block buying plaza - Shopping district
Jumble Junction - Junkyard of old blocks where people go for fun to push them around
Town tile/Town square (they call it a town tile bc they're quirky even tho it's actually like, less clear what it is than just calling it town square)
- The town square has a big open space and a stage area for performances and announcements from the mayor
- It's surrounded by some shops and a few small houses
- All the areas of the town branch out from the town square
Outskirts


Player goes from Laboratory to the Mines, then to the town square.
The player then can either go to Pushville, Block buying plaza, or Jumble Junction


Puzzles that have to do with the visibility - there is something on the other side of the wall that is visible, but wasn't visible before you opened a section. This reveals to the player there must be a path in that section that directly leads to the area.


News articles

Headline that says "Hedgehog predicts six more weeks of winter"
Followed by "Just kidding. There is no sun here so there is no such thing as seasons."

Tile that is concious but other tiles are not aware, leading to dialogue like "I swear I left the room and came back and the tile was in a different place"



Less thinking about how I think






Sections

Section for "clearance sacrifice sneak out a block" puzzles
Section for border block puzzles
Section for tight sliding puzzles (like those sliding red white wooden bead puzzles)
Section for vanishing goal block puzzles
Section for boulder visibility puzzles
Section for puzzles where the previous rooms exit block is important

What if the player can push the trash block around? Or what if the trash block can be pushed around like normal until it hits a wall, at which point it acts as a regular trash block?

Make game audio that fills up all frequencies. Fast and full sound effects

Color theory

Add depth to the scene?

Everything eventually fades into one color because of the atmosphere







Make some turns timed? So you have to make them within a certain amount of time




Portals

Puzzle where two blocks can easily combine against another. But to actually get one of the blocks in place to be combined, it's not possible without using a portal.

Puzzle you have to complete in a certain number of moves


Swap block mechanics - A block you push around, and then press a button to swap places with it. There can be puzzles where they're out in the open, but the way you activate the block is surprising. Then, when you discover how to swap, you suddenly realize there are many areas that you might have been able to use the swap block on.
How do we activate the swap bock? It needs to be in a surprising way the player likely won't find out immediately on their own.



Each room the player has been in will show up as a gray box on the map. The room the player is currently in will be a red box.




Make the perfect game you want to play


Things that would make it perfect:
1. Great puzzles, with each one demonstrating a new concept, an expansion on a concept, or an edge case of a concept
2. Intermissions with explicit messaging, that is expanded upon by the puzzles
3. Several big "moments" that makes the player feel as if they just watched something insane happen




Moments





Don't walk into a kitchen asking "can this kitchen make me an omelette". Ask yourself, "what can this kitchen make for me today?"



Notes on linked blocks

The mirror rooms blocked off visually are hard to process mentally.
You need to keep track of the blocks that exist in the second room but not the first, as well as keep track of the position
of the linked block. All while not being able to see the second room at all. This is a lot of mental strain.

This can be simplified in several ways. The first is by simply always making the second room visible. The floor already communicates
what is in the second room, so we might as well cut the middle man and just let the player see the second room.

The second simplfiication could be having the linked blocks glow through walls in this context (or maybe all contexts).
They could always glow or they could just glow when they're moved. Glowing only on move could be a nice compromise that helps
the player keep track of where the block is, but since it only happens when the tile moves the player won't be overly
reliant on it as an indicator. I'm not yet sure if this is good or bad though.






BUG?!?! When a linked block pushes a linked block, it doesn't push it's corresponding linked block

The goal of the first build is to get feedback on the various mechanics, on the puzzle, and on what works and doesn't
work with the enivornmental design. We want to test out lots of ideas to see which direction to take the game. Who will play
in the playtest? I'm not sure. 


Things to do for first build:

Make 5-6 full puzzle areas. Include multiple environmental puzzles throughout the world that unlock parts of the map.
Make a win condition. Maybe it could be linking all the portals, and you get led to an end area.
Main menu (keep very ugly and do not design)
Do the art for the game. We're doing a playtest, we might as well get feedback for the art as early as possible.





Do a second interation on the puzzles for each area. This includes:

The environmental introductory puzzle
Pulling out bad levels, and deciding to rework or remove them entirely
Creating a new batch of puzzles and working the best of them in

We'll rework the intro area LAST


Areas to iterate on:

Portal area
1 block area
X block area
Intro area

Areas to implement:

Linked block area
Barrior block area



Environmental puzzles

The entrance to each area is an environmental puzzle that teaches the player the mechanic of the puzzles

Let's face the truth: pretty much none of the enivornmental puzzles I have made have had any real substance.


The bulk of the work is in designing the puzzles of each area, and making sure they are all high quality. Rigorous playtesting is required.

We already know the good and bad of the puzzles we've made so far. Every single puzzle has been playtested. We need to do a second round of design for each area.
We did a first round of design for all of them, and we have a decent amount of feedback. Now we need to pull out the worst of the levels, rework them or remove them entirely.




Art design constraints

Tile based


Eaten by a giant leviathan

Eaten by a giant robot or monster or something





For the engine to be able to handle tile animations, we are going to need to make some changes.

We are going to have to split up the level mesh generation based on the tile and animation.
There are animated tiles, non animated tiles, tweened animated tiles, and tween non animated tiles.
At this point I'm not sure if I want each animated tile to have its own timer, or if we can just have every water tile for example be on the same timer.
Let's do it twice.




Instead of a linear set of puzzles where one puzzle leads directly to the next, it could be a big area where each puzzle does something specific.

One puzzle could unblock a hallway that leads to more puzzles. One puzzle could link a machine to the mainframe. One puzzle could let you talk to an NPC. Etc.

Medusa head where her snakes get shorter and shorter and then she shoots a medusa laser



Technical todo


Make auto game .ini file loading not godawful

Level editor
    Selecting multiple tiles in the editor at the same time and placing them all at once (dragging the selection rectangle)
    Rotate tiles in all 4 directions
    Draw ordering - How can we make things render in the right order?
    
    Further reflect on how tile data is stored (e.g. which tiles are solid, which tiles are interactable, etc)

    Note: We still don't know the exact requirements of the level editor! So we need to be careful not to over engineer.

    When editing levels, we want to be able to:
        - Draw new tiles in aseprite
        - Set the tiles to be solid, interactable, or nonsolid within the editor
        - Increase size of sprites.png without having to change anything in code
        - Undo and redo!!!

Animation system

Tween system

Change the move stack system to not be a linked list. It makes it so confusing.
    - Undo limit can be much much smaller. We can consider clearing the move stack when changing screens.
    - We can also consider resetting rooms when changing screens, except for puzzles that you have already solved + dialogue state being persistent.


Renderer rewrite
    - Render individual screens as well as make it possible to render everything visible on screen for the editor
        - For the editor, we could maybe just render once every time a block is changed so we don't need to rerender every frame
    - 